Hi.
We didn't this lecture.
We're beginning to see how we can pre-defined the very will types.
OK so far we have been trying to create variables and Swift was trying to understand what kind of a
variable was that.
Right.
Because we have said that.
Let my number is.
Now we're going for part two.
OK so this was part 1 and now I'm going to go for part 2.
I'm not trying to create another playground over here because we basically tried to continue the same
subject.
After that I'm going to create another playground for another topics.
For example if I want to create a string like var my string.
If I do something like this with a column I can say this is going to be a string with a capitalized
s.
So maybe.
Right now you're thinking that you have talked about camel case and the snake case and they all start
with lower case letters.
Why are we going for upper case later in this case.
So this is a class name.
And right now we don't even know what the class is.
But classes are very important aspects of object oriented programming languages like Swift like Java
like Python.
And we can call Swift an object oriented programming language.
So this is a class name and we're referring to this string class and we are starting with a capitalized
s rather than a lower case that's okay.
So classes are the only way that we go for capitalized letters in the Swift.
So you have to write this like this string.
And you can just choose the strings and then later on you can do something like this.
You can put the equals sign over here and you can just give the value of this variable over here.
Can I do something like this like 50.
No I cannot because it will give me an area and it will say that this is a string you cannot just a
sine an integer type over here.
Right.
Because this is going to be a string.
Can I do that.
Of course I can.
This is not a number.
If I put quotation marks around this it it means that this is just a text.
It's not an integer it's not a double it's not a number it's just a tax right now and Swift will not
recognize this as a number.
If I tried to multiply this by 80 no this won't even work for me it will say that you cannot apply this
with different types you cannot multiply a string by an integer.
So this is not going to work right.
So this is a string and this won't work obviously.
So you can just say something like quotation marks inside of it.
You can write whatever you want and it doesn't matter if I do this var or lat as long as I predefined
the value over here.
It won't make any difference.
So let me do a number here.
So I'm going to call this another number and this will be an integer this time.
And as you can see when you type ends you will see in 8 16 32 and 64 and these values are referring
to the bits.
So how your debit 64 bit for instance the higher the capacity to store the value of a number.
So you cannot assign something like a billion or a trillion in the integer eight but you can store this
in integer 64.
Don't get confused about this.
We're just going to go for it right now.
But if you see something like it's eight in 16 it refers to the bits capacity to star of the number.
So I can say that's right.
It's 10.
But can I say ten point five.
No I cannot say that because ten point five is not even an integer it's a double.
Okay.
And then as you can see it gives us and suggestion you can.
It says that you have to repped is Iran 10 ends.
So if I do it what will I get.
I will get 10 so when you cover right now you wrap this around something.
It will try to a signed is value to be an integer.
OK and let me show you another example of this.
Let me create another very variable called string number for example.
OK.
And I will try to convert another number or 10 into a string.
Can I do something like this.
Can I wrap this number with string class.
Can I do something like string open parentheses and say 20 for example.
I can do that right.
And it will convert this to any to be a text.
So this is not different from putting quotation marks around this to any.
As you can see puts it for us.
So this is a text.
This is not a number anymore.
So I cannot just go over here to string number and multiply it by another number because string number
is now a string rather than an integer.
So I can convert this to yes string if I want then as you can see I can do this and it won't give me
an error because I'm getting I may signing this value to be a string not an integer.
So can I go and say that wrap this my string with integer.
Yeah I can do that right because I can convert the number 50 to be an integer it makes sense.
But what if Phi was assigning these value to be James rather than 50.
Can I convert James to be an integer like this.
No I cannot do that because it doesn't make sense to convert James into any integer and this will crash
my app actually.
And we're going to see a lot of these examples in the options and in the upcoming apps that we're going
to build.
So I'm not going to go in-depth for that.
Right now I'm not trying to convert strings into integers so I'm not going to do anything that may fail
at this time but for example let me show you what defining and a signing means.
So defining is different than assigning.
In the 40 first line I create my strings and I assign a value.
OK but maybe for some reason I want to maybe I can I may want to create a string but not assign a value
at that moment.
Maybe I'm going to download this value from the Internet.
OK so I can do something like this.
Let my variable is going to be a string type but I'm not going to assign anything to it right now.
So this is perfectly OK.
I can't just leave it like that.
OK.
If you play this there won't be any problem.
But the problem starts if you try to do something with this because we haven't initialized it yet.
So initialization is different than defining the variable.
So this is defining.
OK.
I created my variable but it doesn't have anything right now it doesn't have any value it isn't even
initialized yet.
So if I want to initialize this I can't come over here and I can change the value or I can assign anyway
Lou to my variable but I cannot do something like this I cannot just say go and make this uppercase.
It will give me an error.
OK.
I did that in here because it had a value but right now it doesn't have a value.
And as you can see it says that constant my variable used before initialized.
So I didn't initialize this but I tried to make it uppercase so it doesn't make sense as well.
Right.
So it gives me an error.
So you have to be careful when you initialize the variable when you define the variable and then you
accessed the methods or at the resort options like this.
You have to do this after you initialize your variable.
And in fact we're going to have a lot of examples like this when we tried to build an up.
So if I do something like this my real is now test.
Now after that I can do whatever I want to do with my variable I can just go for uppercase I can just
go for lower case while there were I want to do.
And as you run this you will see that test is now test and Elian if I did create this with let I'm not
changing the value over here I'm just initializing it I'm just assigning good value for the first time.
Now later on I cannot do this I cannot change this value again because this is created with lat this
is a constant as you can see it says that it's immutable OK immutable means it cannot be changed mutable
means it can be changed so I believe now you have understood how you can predefined the values well
you types actually and how you can define something and then initialize it later on and how you must
initialize it then use some methods and use some variables or any other options that you might want
to do.
So if you do print my variable over here you will only see test.
OK because this my variable dot upper cased doesn't change the original my variable okay.
It just produces another constant.
Another variable maybe.
So in fact I can just create another variable and I can have it assigned to these value like that so
I can just say let my upper case or upper variable is now this.
OK so my variable dot uppercase will be stored in my upper variable left.
So if I just print my upper variable over here I will see the upper case tests but if I print my variable
I will see the lower case tests.
So I'm not changing the original value of my variable I'm just creating another variable over here.
And if I want to I can just reassign this to another really or another constant.
So right now I I cannot just do this again because I have initialized this I have created this as a
left eye is a constant.
So now you know the difference between constants and variables you know the difference between defining
and initializing you know how you can assign object types when you create variables are constants actual
you have learned a lot during this two lectures.
It is time to stop.
In fact because within the next lecture we going to learn about data structure called a race in which
we can store some values.